"""
File:   graph_application.txt
Author: Marshall Jones
Date:   11/13/2020
"""

Forestry Application of Graphs

Professor Khan, this is a potential business idea that I have been 
thinking over this past semester and summer. I would love any input 
you have, and I ask that you keep the idea confidential. I plan to 
reach out to Professor Levy since programming with drones would be a 
significant part of the project. But as I said, I would be thrilled
to receive any and all feedback you can think of.

I've already begun writing a business plan for this, but since this 
assignment is intended to focus on applications of graphs, I'll try 
not to delve too deep into the weeds of other details.

Below, I first provide a high-level overview of the concept,
beginning with the problem at hand, then moving on to my solution.
Last, I explore the technicalities of how the software would work,
and how the concepts relate to graphs/maps. The part that's closest 
to what you're looking for in this assignment is towards the bottom 
under "USING GRAPHS". I hope you enjoy!


Here's a quick rundown on the concept...
THE PROBLEM
The forestry consulting industry is outdated and lacks the efficiencies that 
technology has to offer.

Foresters spend a significant amount of their time on the road when they aren’t 
visiting landowners. During visits, they may give rough estimations of timber 
values by “eying” the average height and diameter of the trees. They also 
provide consultation on the best way to manage a stand to maximize returns 
(i.e., clear-cutting vs thinning) or fix a problem (i.e., erosion, disease, etc). 

These site visits take time, which the forester can then bill the landowner for. 
The rough value estimations by “eying” timber can also be problematic for obvious 
reasons.

MY SOLUTION
My drones equipped with LiDAR will significantly disrupt this business.
They will provide: 
- more precise timber valuations
- more elaborate management strategies
- more competitive price structure than foresters can offer for their time
- A detailed mapping interface that provides clients with a digital map of their 
  land and timber

My drones can autonomously fly through timber stands and determine precise values 
of every individual tree. By taking variables such as tree species, height, diameter, 
crown structure, soil composition, elevation, climate, etc., my drones can gather 
data for elaborate timber valuation models.

The software produces a current value and can provide multiple growth/value forecasts 
based on various management strategies (i.e., short-term vs. long-term profit 
maximization).

This enables foresters to bring more elaborate deliverables to their clients, whilst 
creating significant efficiency in their work schedules. They’ll spend less time on 
the road between sites and more time analyzing their current clients’ timber data 
or picking up new clients. It can also be used to quantify hurricane and wildfire 
damage, among other things.


TECHNICALITIES
CREATING FLIGHT PATHS
The drones will be highly intelligent and capable of adjusting flightpaths as they
come across unexpected obstacles. Before deployment over a given stand of timber,
I will use geographic coordinates to outline a map from which the drone's software 
will parse into a graphical flightplan. 

Although the flightpath calculation is important, the most crucial part of this 
concept is the development of the software that gathers, translates, and analyzes 
the timber data, which is then populated geographically into the outlined map (a graph).

LiDAR – FOURIER TRANSFORMS
As the drones fly above the timber, the LiDAR will activate and begin pulsing light
waves towards the ground. Some of the light waves will hit the canopy and bounce back
to the LiDAR device, while other light waves will penetrate further below, some to the
ground level. The LiDAR device gathers data by recording the amount of time it takes
for x lightwave to return back to the device. This raw data is collected in waveform, 
so I believe the translation algorithm will need to be processed with a fourier transform. 
Granted, I'm not exceptionally well-versed in mathematics, but this is what I've found 
so far through my research.

GRAPHICAL MAP
After the translation of waveform data into more useful variables such as tree height,
canopy structure, tree diameter, etc., each tree will be plotted onto a graphical map
for the client's convenience as well as further analysis. Using variables such as soil 
type and proximity to other trees, the precise location of each tree will be an 
important aspect in evaluating and modeling a given tree's current health and future 
growth potential. Therefore, the insights gathered from this data will provide helpful 
recommendations to the landowner for exactly which trees to remove as the timber stand 
develops. Later drone models will be equipped with paintball guns; they will be used to 
autonomously fly through the timber and mark the trees at eye-level to be removed by the 
loggers. The graphical map generated from previous flyovers will be necessary for this 
"marker drone" to locate the trees to be removed.


USING GRAPHS
Now that I've shared the idea with you, I'd like to delve a little more into how the 
graphical map would work. The first step in producing the graph will be outlining the
border of the designated area. Of course, some property borders are curved, so there
would be a good bit of math/geometry involved with calculating this type of edge. 
However, property lines for the most part are lines connected by survey markers, which
are also recorded by the surveyors as coordinates. I would use the given coordinates
(whether given by the landowner or found on Google Maps if the edge of a timber stand 
is not a property line) as vertices in a connected graph. The drone then uses this
graph as a set of boundaries from which it creates its flightpath. The flightpath
will depend on the area within the graph and the elevation at which the drone will
operate, given that the LiDAR has a limited field of view.

As the drone collects data from each tree, it will populate the inside of this graph 
with a second overlayed graph. Each tree will be represented as a vertex which is 
associated with a dictionary that includes the tree's unique identifier, species, and 
all the other variables unique to the given tree. This will be a complete, undirected 
graph where each vertex is connected by an edge; the weight of each edge is the distance 
between the trees (vertices). Combined with the height and canopy structure of each tree, 
the weighted edges will be useful in quantifying the competition between adjacent trees 
in the stand.

I think this could also have a 3-dimensional aspect. This is where it gets a little more 
complex with significant demand for storage and processing energy. Perhaps every tree in 
the stand could have its own graph that essentially maps out the structure of its crown
and trunk. This isn't necessary, but it could be useful for precise biological research 
purposes.

Finally, I'm not exactly sure how I would do this last part yet, but I need to include
some way to keep track of the elevation, soil type, and other more general characteristics
of the area of interest, as these variables can differ even in an area as small as a stand
of timber.


To follow through on this idea, there is obviously much more research, work, and 
brainstorming to be done. I definitely need to learn more about AI and other concepts
for this. 
I want to leave you with one final thought on this idea that could provide a really 
interesting opportunity in a completely different industry, and it still relates to 
graphs.


VIRTUAL REALITY
In the long term after I've developed this timber analysis business, I want to sell
3-dimensional maps to virtual reality video game companies. Sure, those companies
probably have algorithms that can generate open world maps in which there is unlimited,
unstructured potential for fun (i.e., Minecraft, Skyrim, etc.).

But it still doesn't feel as real as reality itself. Imagine playing in an ultra-
realistic videogame where the map is Earth itself. You can be a Native American running 
through a densely wooded swamp, or a patriot during the Revolutionary War engaging in 
guerrilla-style combat. The possibilities are endless. And this can all be done with 
LiDAR: I would send the drones above and throughout the area to create a full 
3-dimensional graphical map of a given environment.